1. Presenter(s) Name

Ron Bowes

2. Bio limited to 100 words for you OR your group (not 100 words per
person) â€“ this limit will be strictly enforced.

Ron Bowes is a security consultant for Leviathan Security Group. His
primary job is penetration testing, vulnerability assessments, reverse
engineering, and teaching. In his free time, he runs a blog at
skullsecurity.org, collects and studies leaked password lists, runs the
local Winnipeg hackerspace, designs and competes in capture-the-flag
challenges, and trolls n00bs on Reddit.

3. Abstract of your presentation limited to 200 words or less.

As a group. the security industry has solved a lot of difficult
problems.  Firewalls do a great job blocking traffic, overflow
vulnerabilities are getting hard and harder to exploit on modern
systems, and spam filters/captchas are nearly perfect. But there's one
place where we have dropped the ball: cryptography. Why is cryptography
so hard to get right? As a developer, you have to understand random
numbers, key generation, padding, block chaining, initialization
vectors, proper signature generation, and more, just to be somewhat
safe. Even security professionals manage to screw it up, so how do we
expect an average developer to get it right?

For this talk, we'll be getting into deep detail on a bunch of well
known attacks against crypto - including padding oracles (the Vaudenay
attack), hash length extension, BEAST, CRIME, poorly generated random
numbers, WEP, and more - to help demonstrate the problem, and begin to
look at how we might be able to fix it. 

4. Detailed outline/description of your topic.

This talk will be fairly straight forward:

- Some fundamentals about crypto/hashing (being that this is shmoocon,
  and people are expected to have a good grounding in security, this
  will be brief
- Look, in good detail, at some of the more interesting crypto attacks
  in good depth (how they work, how they're exploited, how they're
  fixed):
  - Padding oracles (Vaudenay attack)
  - Hash length extension
  - BEAST (chosen plaintext attack against CBC)
  - CRIME (compression vulnerabilities)
  - Poorly generated random numbers (my favourite example is shuffling a
    deck of cards using a 32-bit seed)
  - WEP (abusing initialization vectors)
  - Bit-flipping attacks against RC4 and other stream ciphers
- Look at some of the solutions
  - Authenticated hashes - so important!
    - EAX-mode for ciphers
  - Encrypted data should not be put into the users' hands
  - Random numbers with real entropy
- How can we make this idiot proof?
  - Invent an easy way for developers to generate and manage keys,
    encrypt data, and sign the encrypted data, all in a safe way

5. List of other conferences at which submission has been presented or submitted

This is a brand new talk, hasn't been submitted anywhere yet.

6. List of facilities requested beyond what is already provided (power,
projector with VGA input, sound projection, and internet connectivity).

n/a

7. Let us know if you are a first time presenter.

First time Shmoocon, but have presented at a few non-Shmoocon
conferences

